[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Today on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we are with Richard Doty,
a retired Special Agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO
ET-related intelligence.
Today we are discussing remote
viewing in our solar system.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>> Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>> You were involved with remote
viewing projects that had to do
with our solar system.
Can you tell us how this
was conducted and set
the scene for us?
>> I was employed by the
Institute for Advanced Studies
at Austin.
And during my time there,
I witnessed remote viewing
as some experiments
that were being done
and some projects that involved
remote viewing outside Earth
into the solar system.
And these remote viewers were
ex-military, retired military
remote viewers
working at other jobs,
but they came in for
some special projects.
And some of the things
that they were doing
and some of the things
they were remote viewing
were more or less a side
job for them, so to speak.
>> Now were they remote viewing
like specific coordinates?
>> I believe they were.
The first remote viewing
I saw was of Mars.
The remote viewer, a retired
military remote viewer,
one of the best of the best.
And I'm not sure
why or who told him
to pick a particular
area of Mars,
but I believe it's called
the Argyre Basin of Mars.
One of our past spacecrafts,
it might have been Viking,
observed anomalies in the
geographical land area
around this particular site.
So they decided to go
ahead and remote view
that to determine what it was.
>> You said anomalous.
Is this geography
or is it structures?
>> Well they suspected
they were structures there.
And there were four different
points the Viking photographed.
And I think one of the
Vikings orbited the Mars first
before it landed.
And they picked out what
appeared to be structures.
So they decided to
go in and remote
view those areas to determine
whether they were structures
or whether it was a hill that
had been crushed by the wind
or something on Mars.
>> Were you looking
for something specific?
>> They were looking
for structures.
>> Structures.
What types of structures
were they looking for?
>> Somehow somebody had evidence
or some kind of information
that there were past
structures on Mars.
And so they wanted
to determine about
whether these anomalies
were, in fact, structures,
because they suspected
them to be structures.
And some of the
information came from NSA,
and NSA thought these
anomalies were structures.
>> Based on these structures
what was remote viewed?
>> The area where the
structures were located.
And the first one
that was remote viewed
was the Argyre Basin of Mars.
And what the remote viewer
located there was a structure.
It was a huge,
massive structure,
partially above ground
and the rest underground.
It was about 3,000 feet long.
And it was very deep.
And so the remote
viewer looked into that,
remote viewed it, determined
that there were rooms
underground, what
appeared to be rooms.
And what he located was what
he described as helicopters,
small flying devices.
They were round in shape.
They had propellers on top.
And they had bulges
on each side.
And there was a number of them--
and I don't remember a exact
number--
resting in a room--
>> Like a giant
hangar underground.
And he also found what he
considered to be coffins deep
under the surface.
There were numerous
coffins, too many
to be counted during a
remote viewing session.
One of the questions could
you determine what was inside?
He said, no, but he was
convinced they were coffins.
And there were other
rooms in this structure
that had been damaged.
There were pieces of concrete.
He called them concrete
or some kind of material
that broke off the wall.
So that was an indication
to him that this
is a very, very old structure.
It was massive in
length and height.
On the top, the above ground
portion of this structure
had little, small
what he claimed
to be windows or some portals.
Some parts of the top above
ground of this structure
had been damaged.
It had been broken.
The roof area had been broken.
But the deep inside where the
Martian helicopters, as he
called them, were
located had a portal
from one end that
went out outside,
but the dirt and gravel had
blocked that exit going out.
So the consensus was that
this is a very, very, very
old, probably maybe even a
million years old structure,
but he was able to describe
what I just told you.
>> Was there any verification
of this later on down the road
by our new satellites and
our new ventures there?
>> Well considering that there's
a lot of information over
the years that is not
being released by NASA,
there's photographs taken of
Mars that are still classified
by NASA for some reason.
They have an excuse for it.
So I'm sure over the years they
probably located this place
and probably determined it was
some kind of an old structure
once housing a
civilization on Mars.
>> Were there any signs of
living entities or beings?
>> No.
He found what he described
as coffins deep inside,
but there were no live entities.
>> Why did he conclude
they were coffins?
>> The shape, the
small shapes of them.
And so I think it was just a
consensus that they probably
were coffins and that may
be even a burial site.
>> Wow.
I've seen similar
stuff on projects.
And as a remote viewer,
sometimes we can get confused--
not confused, but it
doesn't come out exactly
like we think it does.
It's possible maybe
these are pods
and they're in a state of
animation, frozen animation.
And maybe they're
waiting to be activated.
Is that possible?
>> I hadn't thought of that.
And I don't know
that the scientists
at the time-- in the 1990s
when we were remote viewing
considered that, but
that's highly possible.
It could be just pods waiting
to be reactivated in some way.
>> Did the remote viewer find
anything inside the rooms like
furniture, computers?
>> Well he did find some
what appears to be blocks.
He just called them blocks
in several of these rooms,
not knowing quite what
the blocks were used for.
He didn't mention any kind
of electrical equipment,
such as computers.
But he did say there
were blocks in a number
of these different
rooms under the surface.
>> Now I'm aware you did
do another remote view
on a different part of Mars.
How was that determined
to remote view that part?
>> Well I'm there as an observer
and they already had this
planned.
So I'm not sure
how they determined
where they were
going to remote view,
but they knew the exact target.
They knew where they wanted.
And it was because
they suspected
it was another
building at this site.
And this site was the
Tharsis Montes section
of Mars, which I believe
one of our Mars Rovers
was close to at one
point in the early 2000s.
>> And what did they find here?
>> They found another structure,
a long, thin structure.
This structure went thousands
of feet underground.
The structure had shafts.
He viewed the shafts.
And the shafts had
ridges inside as
if there had been
something connected
to these ridges inside
this long, deep shaft.
He couldn't determine
what these ridges were,
but when he viewed the
bottom part of this shaft,
he found debris.
So probably at one
point, the ridges
contained some
type of structure.
And over time, the structure
broke apart and ended up
on the bottom of the shaft.
Now on each side of this shaft--
it was kind of like
a V-shaped shaft--
there were exit points that
were leading out to the soil.
But of course, over time,
those entry and exit points
had been filled with
dirt or Martian soil.
So he wasn't sure exactly
what they were for,
but it appeared that
there were maybe
launch places for vehicles
to launch or maybe
to come back in.
>> Did they ever come up with
some hypothesis of why this was
abandoned?
Are these considered ruins?
>> Yeah, the consensus was
they were ruins, Martian ruins.
At one time, the
consensus-- and I
believe it's even
prominent within
the astronomical community
that Mars contained life
at one time.
It might have been hundreds
of million years ago,
but there was life on Mars.
And something happened
to the atmosphere
and they either died or
not sure whether where
the civilization went.
But Mars contained structures.
There was a civilization there
that built these structures.
And that's the
consensus of the people
that we're analyzing these
remote viewing sessions.
>> Now do the remote viewers
ever since any living beings
at this coordinates?
>> No.
There were no living beings.
They tried to look
through every single room
and every single structure.
But they didn't
find any, what he
thought was coffins in
the second structure.
But he did his best to view,
to try to locate any beings
or entities.
And there were none found.
>> Fascinating.
Tell us more about the third
session that was a little bit
more south there in Mars.
>> The third session was in
the same area, Tharsis Montes.
And they found another building.
And this other building
had numerous rooms.
There was a lot
of debris that was
on the bottom of this structure.
It was a huge structure.
He didn't get the
dimensions of the structure.
He was concentrating on
other things I guess.
I mean, I'm not an
expert in remote viewing,
but he was doing his
best in the time allotted
to the view the
entire structure.
But he found a lot of
debris in the bottom,
as if there was other parts of
this structure that had broken
off and ended up on the bottom.
And it was similar to the
second structure farther south
of that, but it was
another building
and another evidence of a
civilization on the planet
Mars.
>> Could you describe was this
above ground and below ground
like the others?
And were there rooms with
other materials in them,
or colors, or scents?
>> Partially it
was above ground.
It was constructed
partially above ground.
And the rest of it
was deep underground.
The color was a light-colored
brownish color, not quite
like what we would consider
concrete but a bland color.
And there were numerous rooms.
And most of the rooms
had pieces of material.
And he determined that to
be broken structures, maybe
the wall caved in or
something to that effect.
And there was no other
really prominent things
that he talked about
that he found during it.
So that presents a
question that we had
was, OK, if all these pieces
of concrete or materials
that made this structure
was on the bottom,
how did it all get
down to the bottom?
I mean if this was a tight fit
structure underground, deep
underground, some
thousands of feet
underground, how did it
break and get down there?
And there wasn't any explanation
on how all these blocks
or broken pieces
got on the bottom.
Now the bottom of
this one shaft,
the third shaft or the third
structure, was very, very long.
It didn't have any
rooms that he could see,
because there was so much
debris on the bottom.
Now was that a place where
they discarded something?
And maybe that was a
depository of old material?
Or how did that get down there?
And I don't think there
was an answer to that.
>> Well did the remote viewers
ever signal about the past
of this area, about the future?
Were they destroyed by
a cataclysmic event?
Was there a war?
You know did they ever
mention anything about that?
>> Well this consensus was
it was a catastrophic event,
such as maybe an asteroid
hitting or something that was
ending the civilization.
And of course,
another point was that
why were all these buildings
constructed underground mostly?
If Mars was like Earth, which
some astronomers will talk
about that Mars and Earth-like
a thousand, millions years ago,
why did they build all these
structures underground?
Why aren't there any
structures above ground?
That's a question
I personally asked.
It doesn't make sense to me that
all of them are underground.
Or maybe these
structures that we
found were something
special, maybe
some kind of a
military structures
that they were hiding
something from somebody else.
>> What were your conclusions
after seeing and knowing
everything that you learned
about Mars on this mission?
>> Well I was observer.
And it was very
interesting because I'm
fascinated by remote viewing
exactly how they do it
and the information that they
can obtain from remote viewing.
But they had experts there
that were analyzing everything
that the remote
viewer was giving
to them, the sketches
that were made
during this remote viewing.
And I'm fascinated by the
system techniques used
by the remote
viewer and the fact
that our solar
system had probably
a thriving civilization
once on Mars.
And there's distinct
evidence of that
and why we're not pursuing
that at this time.
>> Now you were also attended
a remote viewing session with
Jupiter's moon Europa.
>> Why Europa?
I'm not sure why they chose
Europa, probably because there
was so much activity.
And now this is in the '90s.
We didn't know as
much about Europa,
although we did have the
Voyager spacecrafts-- the two,
Voyager 1 and Voyager 2--
take pictures and analyzed a lot
of the atmosphere around Europa
as it was traveling
out in space.
So maybe that's the reason.
But they decided to do
Europa, and they wanted
to do the side facing Jupiter.
And that's what this particular
retired military remote viewer
remote viewed.
>> So it was able to determined
because a remote viewer said do
this side of Europa.
>> Yes.
And they wanted to do the
side where the geysers were
shooting out of.
And even in the '90s, there was
a consensus amongst astronomers
that there was an
ocean under Europa.
I mean there had have been
some kind of volcanic activity
that caused these
geysers going off.
It wasn't just the
gravitational pull
of the planet Jupiter
against the moon,
but there had to be
some other reason.
So they were going
to remote view
to determine what
they could observe.
Now nobody in the
room, or nobody
that was going to
get the information
from the remote viewer,
thought they would
find what they found, which--
>> What was revealed?
They remote viewed deep into
the ocean, underground ocean,
of Europa.
And they found what appeared to
the remote viewer, in his mind,
to be octopuses,
numerous octopuses.
>> What size are
these octopuses?
>> There were small Earth-sized
octopuses with appendages,
had a huge head, large eyes.
And they were swimming through
this ocean underground.
Now there was two vents
that the remote viewers
saw that water or
some kind of spray
was being shot out of the
ocean onto the surface.
What he tried to concentrate
on was how many other objects
he could remote view
under the ocean.
And he was very, very
involved in this.
This is something that
actually upset him to the point
where he was getting
psychologically unstable so
to speak.
He had to stop
several times, but he
didn't see any other swimming
creatures under there,
but he saw these octopuses.
And it amazed him that
there was living life
under this moon of Jupiter.
And then what was troubling was
towards the end of the session,
he started talking about some
kind of a spacecraft that
was coming in to Europa.
It was getting
closer and closer.
He was trying to determine
if he could look at it
and remote view this craft.
But as it got closer and
closer to the planet,
he lost his remote
viewing capability
and that session ended.
It was really, really,
really remarkable.
>> Yeah, it's very compelling.
But at least for now we know
where octopuses come from.
>> That's what I'm
thinking now at.
>> I totally think that.
>> And this is in the '90s.
And now there's been
so many analysis
of octopuses by
marine biologists that
claim that these are very
intelligent creatures.
Their DNA and so forth,
they can't connect it
to anything else on Earth.
So where did they come from?
Well, we might know now.
>> Now we might know.
Did any of the other remote
viewers target Europa?
And if so, what did they find?
>> They had three other
occasions where they remote
viewed Europa.
I wasn't there during
the time period.
I was only there
during the first one.
But I heard from other
witnesses to the remote viewing
that they wanted to
go deeper, and deeper,
and deeper into the
ocean to see if they
could find anything else.
And they found large
worm-like creatures
swimming around the ocean.
And I don't recall exactly
how they described them,
but they were bigger than
the Europan octopuses.
And they were probably
similar to eels that
were found deeper in the ocean.
>> Do you know how
large these eels were?
>> They were several--
I think they were
talking about meters,
like 20 or 30 meters long, which
is like 60 feet or something
like that.
And they also remote viewed
the top, the soil area,
to determine whether there were
any structures or anything up
there.
And they were constantly
devoting their attention
to this one area which there
seemed to be a platform there,
some kind of a platform,
a constructed platform,
like a man-made platform.
Although they didn't
see any flying crafts
coming into that
platform, but that might
have been the platform the
first remote viewer, when
he was remote viewing it, the
craft, the disk-shaped craft
that was coming in that
was distracting him,
it might have landed there.
And like I said,
I didn't witness
any of these other three.
This is just information that
I obtained from the ones that
witnessed it.
>> What was understood about
the information found here?
>> The information was it was
a off-the-record, so to speak,
remote viewing sessions, that
these remote viewers wanted
to demonstrate their abilities.
I don't know that
it was being used.
I have no information
all that it
was being used by an
intelligence service
or by NSA, or NASA, or
the Institute itself.
I think it was just
a off-the-record type
of sessions.
And I saw many of
other ones there
that had nothing
to do with UFOs,
that they were
testing themselves
in remote viewing another
location miles away
and things like that.
And that's what I--
>> And these were the top
remote viewers at the time?
>> Well they were.
They were all
retired in the '90s.
But at the time
in the '80s, they
were the top of
the line military.
And I only saw the
military remote viewers.
There were some civilians
that would come and go,
but I never saw
them remote view.
>> Well at least
allegedly, they saw water.
They saw life, these octopuses.
They saw the worms.
And one of them saw
a craft approaching.
So that's pretty phenomenal
right there in itself.
>> It is.
It was an astounding opportunity
to see a remote viewing
for the first time.
For me, I'd heard
a lot about it,
and it was very,
very exciting for me
to watch, and listen,
and then listen
to him afterwards explain
what he did in the sketches
that he drew.
>> Now has this team ever tried
to remote view deeper in space
and see anything?
>> Yes this was a very, very
sensitive remote viewing
session that we did a couple
of years later where we knew--
and I'm talking about
the Institute, not me
in particular-- but
we knew that there
was some kind of space
craft in deep space.
We knew, even in the '90s, we
had deep space probes in space.
And they were listening,
listening satellites,
and photographing satellites.
They could do both, but
they were in deep space.
And we had one that took
a picture of an object
around the orbit of Neptune,
which would be very deep space.
So they thought there
was an opportunity
to try to remote view this
to determine whether it was
an asteroid, a
comet, or whether it
was a flying device,
such as a maybe ET craft.
>> How big on the
picture did they--
what was the numbers they
came up with of the size?
>> This is a
massive-sized craft.
>> Miles long?
>> Thousands of feet long--
>> OK.
>> --and wide.
There wasn't any
actual dimensions,
but they were referring
to it as very large.
It took them a long time.
I mean there were
several sessions.
As you know, they concentrate.
They can't concentrate
on one particular area.
It was several sessions that
it lasted hours and hours
before they actually
were able to concentrate
and remote view this craft.
And what they found
out, it was an ET craft.
>> Do they know anything about
the craft or the ETs that are
controlling it?
>> There were numerous of
entities inside this craft
sitting at consoles.
He could only view the top
part of these entities.
He could see their arms.
He could see their bodies.
He couldn't see their legs.
It is as if their bodies
might be in some other type
of container or something else.
But there were many of them,
probably 40, 50, 60 of them
at consoles within this craft.
Now consoles had portals
or windows on the top.
It was cigar-shaped, long.
It had bulges at each end.
One end had had
these containers,
which he described
as one container had
rocks inside of it.
So scientists kind of figured
that probably is a propulsion
system of some sort using
maybe some kind of material
or elements.
The other end of the craft
had larger extraterrestrials,
very, very tall and
very, very large arms.
And they were maybe in
control of the craft.
There's something to that.
They had a console
in front of them.
And they were manipulating
controls on that console.
He could see that.
The seats that these ETs were
sitting in were solid seats.
And they had some kind
of a structure or a bar
that ran from the
top of the seat
all the way up to the
ceiling of the craft.
These entities had appeared
to be helmets on with bulges
on the side.
And he couldn't see the
face, but there was something
in front of their face,
probably some kind of a visor.
But what excited
him was the fact
that every one of these
entities were doing something
at a small console, manipulating
it, or maybe flying the craft,
or whatever they were
doing, collecting material.
He did witness
something at the far--
where he thought the
propulsion system
was, some kind of beam or
something coming into the craft
as if maybe they were
able to collect dust,
solar dust or something, which
really kind of excited him.
But this craft was moving.
He determined it to be
moving, not at a great speed,
more like an orbit.
And he could see Neptune.
He distinctly can remember
and talk about Neptune.
He didn't actually
remote view Neptune,
but he could see it as a gas
giant, I mean the gas planet.
One of the things that
everybody asked him was
was there any other
crafts out there?
But he didn't see anything
other than this long, huge,
possibly a mother ship.
>> How is this information
that you gathered used
by the Institute?
What did they do
with all of this?
>> I'm not sure.
I know they collected it.
And again, it was supposed to
be off-the-record so to speak,
although there were some
representatives there from--
one representative from NASA.
And he was the only
government that I knew,
government person that was
present to witnesses this.
There were other
people in the room,
but I believe they
were from other labs
but I didn't know who they were
or what their positions were.
What they did with
it was proprietary
I guess, whatever
they decided to do
and whether they shared
it with NASA or NSA.
Since there was a
NASA person there,
a scientist, I'm
sure it went to NASA.
And I'm sure they probably
directed more satellite
coverage to that particular
area trying to track this craft
and determine what it
was, why it was there.
I'd heard rumors
that they were trying
to get one of the Voyager--
because this in the '90s, and
Voyagers were still out there--
trying to get the Voyager
to get close to it,
but I don't believe that Voyager
had enough energy or power
to do that.
>> How significant do you
feel remote viewing is
for the intelligence agencies?
>> I think it's a very,
very important tool within
the intelligence community and
within the military in general.
I knew that back in the '80s.
A brigadier general
was kidnapped in Italy.
The way they discovered
him was a remote viewer.
They found out
exactly where he was
in that particular apartment.
Italian commandos went
in there and freed him.
And I know some other
situations where
they were looking for
a kidnapped person
inside the Soviet Union.
He was kidnapped from
a particular place.
He had nonofficial cover.
They wanted to
know where he was.
The remote viewers tracked
him exactly to that location,
and he was able to be freed.
So there was a lot of
good use of remote viewers
back in the '70s and '80s.
And I'm sure they're
still active today.
And I know of some agencies
that have research and advanced
research in remote viewing.
And I know you know more
about this than I do.
>> Absolutely.
I agree with you that
they're still doing it.
It's still going on.
And they're putting a
lot of money into it.
And it is definitely something
that governments do believe in
because it is very successful,
as you have experienced.
>> One added thing I'd like to
bring up is in the late '80s, I
was at DIA headquarters
at Bolling Air Force Base.
And I was in a pretty secretive
area walking through a hallway.
And at the end of the hallway,
there was a security guard.
And I hadn't seen a
security guard around.
And I thought, well,
what's down there?
And the person that was leading
me around was named Carl.
He said, oh, they're
having a remote viewing
class down there.
Now this was 1988.
So they're still teaching
remote viewing in 1988.
They're still teaching it today.
>> Absolutely.
Well, Rick, thank you for
being on the show again.
And I love talking
about remote viewing.
And it's great to
hear your experiences.
>> Thank you, Emery.
>> I'm Emery Smith, and
this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC PLAYING]